 aggregate Function:
- It aggregates records into single record give a summary of it.
- You must write only aggregate function in select.
- If want to write grp fun along with other column then you must write that column in group by clause.
-max(), min(), count(), sum() and avg() is the grp function.
 syntax:
select grp_fun from tab_name;
example: select sum(sal) from emp;


Having Clause:

The having clause works as a filter on the top of grouped rows returned by the group by clause. 

This clause can not be replaced by where clause and vice versa.

Syntax:

Select * from tab_name
where condition
group by col_list
having filter on aggregate function

Query related to count:

1.	departmentwise avg salary
2.	departmentwise sum of salary
3.	departmentwise sum of salary this salary in desc or ascending order.
4.	add in above query that having sum of salary greater than 10000.
5.	write query using where clause and compare with having.
6.	write above 4th query according to gender.


Oracle coach

Group By clause

Group by clause summarises identical records into a single group and returns a single row with summary of each group using approapreate aggregate function in the  select list, like COUNT() SUM() MIN() MAX() AVG() etc.
 
Group by clause works on the rows return by the select query.

Syntax:
Select [aggree_funct/Col_name] from tab_name
where condition
group by col_list

Query related to count:

1.	count the total no of records.
2.	conut of emp according to each department
3.	count of emp wrt gender
4.	conut no of gender present in each department
5.	how many emp hire in each year .


Query related to min, max and avg:

1.	want min max and avg salary of table.
2.	want above same contents with each department.
3.	want add count in the same above query.
4.	Again want me same data according to gender.


Query related to sum:

1.	what will be the total salary paid on employee.
2.	Department wise budget
3.	same as above query only arrange salary in desc order.
	
	ABO Code Dr. Aashish Bhangle 11156950